So now let's look at global context keys
for the IAM conditions.
The first one is requested region
which corresponds to the AWS region
of the request itself.
So this is used to restrict specific actions
in specific regions.
For example, on the right hand side,
we allow to stop or to terminate on anything
if you are in eu-west-1, eu-west-2, or eu-west-3.
So we effectively restricted these API calls
to specific regions.
But there is a catch for requested region
and you'll see it right now.
So when using a global AWS service
then the region that you make the API call into
is always going to be us-east-1.
So the workaround
to denying everything outside regions
except these global services
is to use deny and not action.
So here we deny anything
that's not CloudFront, IAM, Route53, and Support
which are restricted to us-east-1.
And then we keep the same condition as before.
So string, not equals, AWS requested region,
and then eu-west-1, 2, 3, and eu-central-1.
So here, effectively we're saying,
"Hey, deny everything outside of these four regions
I have right here.
But by the way,
please don't deny CloudFront, IAM, Route53, and Support."
So this can get quite complicated.
As you can see
we have effect, deny,
not action, and then some services.
And we have a condition with string not equals
and the global context key requested region.
But this is the kind of things
you have to be comfortable with
going into the exam.
Next we have the PrincipleArn.
So if we have a look at an IAM user
doing a list bucket operation on this S3 bucket
then we can have a condition
saying that, "Hey, this is only allowed
if the PrincipleArn,
so the user or the role making the request,
is equals to the user Alice."
So here you're going to compare the ARN of the principle
that made the request with ARN specified in the policy.
And for roles, you're going to get the ARN of the role
but not the ARN of the user that assumed that role.
So it's very important.
The principle is the thing making the API call.
So there is some following types of principle allowed.
You have the IAM role.
You have the IAM user.
You have the AWS root user.
And you have also, the AWS STS federated user sessions.
So this is for principle ARN.
That's what makes the request.
Now we have also SourceArn.
So if we have an example in here,
we have an S3 bucket
and we have created an S3 event notifications.
So that's these events are published into an SNS topic.
So what does that mean?
Well that means that the thing making a request
into SNS is your S3 bucket.
And this is where we use this source ARN.
So it's going to compare,
in the service to service type of request,
the ARN of what the source is to what's in the policy.
So here we have an example.
On the bottom right
we see that the source ARN should be a specific bucket.
So this key, AWS SourceArn is only going to be included
when you have a service to service type of interaction.
So for example, as I said,
when an S3 bucket triggers an update to an SNS topic
with the SNS published out of API
you can use the SourceArn
to guarantee that the SNS topic
can only receive data from that S3 bucket specifically.
Now we have the IAM condition called CalledVia.
So this is very interesting.
It's only in some specific use cases,
but for example,
say you're using Athena to query an S3 buckets.
Here we are going to look at the service
that made the request on behalf of the IAM user or role.
And it's going to contain a list of service
in order that made the request on the principal's behalf.
And it supports only very few services.
So you have Athena, CloudFormation, DynamoDB, and KMS.
So that means that when you're using CloudFormation
to do an API call on whatever
you're going to have AWS CalledVia CloudFormation.
When you're using Athena to query the content of S3 bucket
you're going to get AWS CalledVia Athena.
So remember you have Athena, CloudFormation, DynamoDB,
and KMS and that's it.
Next we have IP and VPC conditions.
So we've seen aws:SourceIp
which is corresponding to the public requester IP.
And if you're using public APIs on AWS,
maybe from an EC2 instance as a public IP,
then you will see the public EC2 IP.
So everything is public.
And whenever you make requests privately
through VPC Endpoints
then source IP is not going to be present.
Instead, you will have the VpcSourceIp.
So this isn't the requester IP, the private IP,
made through request that are going
through the VPC Endpoints.
You also have the aws:SourceVpce
which allows you to identify
the VPC Endpoint that the request is made through.
And finally, aws:SourceVpc
which identifies the specific VPC
the request is made from,
again, through a VPC Endpoints.
So it is very common to use this conditions
with S3 bucket policies.
If your bucket is accessed publicly,
or at least accessed through API calls
made to the public endpoint of AWS,
then use the first source IP condition.
Otherwise, if you're using VPC Endpoints
then remember we have VpcSourceI, SourceVpce,
and SourceVpc.
So, here in this example,
we are restricting access from public IP addresses.
So we deny everything
except when the IP address is within this range.
So this is what this policy does.
Should be very familiar to you.
And for example, we can also restrict private IP addresses
and force access to VPC Endpoints.
So here we have a denied star
where the not IP address
is not in this private IP range.
So this is a combination of everything we've seen so far.
Next we have resource tag and principle tag.
So they allow you to control access
to AWS resources using tags.
And so these AWS resource tag
represent tags that exist on specified AWS resources.
So for example, it would be tags on an EC2 instance.
And sometimes you may see something like EC2 resource tag
which is a service specific tag.
So you're saying, "Hey, I want to restrict
the resource tag condition only to the EC2 service."
So resource tag is for tags on resources
and principle tag are for tags
that exist on the IAM user
or the IAM role making the request.
So if you have a look at this IAM policy right here,
we see that in the condition
we have EC2 resource tag project data analytics,
which means that we want the resource tags
or the tag on the EC2 instance
of key project to have the value data analytics.
And then we want the tag, the principle tag,
on the user or the role making the request.
We want the key department to be equal to the value data.
So remember you have to distinguish
between resource tags and principal tags
and you should be good to go.
Alright, that's it.
I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.